Water has been a central subject of nature writing across cultures and centuries. These passages reveal how different literary traditions understand water -- as mirror, as symbol, as ecological web, as metaphor for the soul.

---

Henry David Thoreau, "Walden; or, Life in the Woods" (1854), from the chapter "The Ponds":

"A lake is the landscape's most beautiful and expressive feature. It is earth's eye; looking into which the beholder measures the depth of his own nature. The fluviatile trees next the shore are the slender eyelashes which fringe it, and the wooded hills and cliffs around are its overhanging brows."

"It is a mirror which no stone can crack, whose quicksilver will never wear off, whose gilding Nature continually repairs; no storms, no dust, can dim its surface ever fresh."

"The water is so transparent that the bottom can easily be discerned at the depth of twenty-five or thirty feet."

"Walden is blue at one time and green at another, even from the same point of view. Lying between the earth and the heavens, it partakes of the color of both."

"I am thankful that this pond was made deep and pure for a symbol. While men believe in the infinite some ponds will be thought to be bottomless."

"It is remarkable how long men will believe in the bottomlessness of a pond without taking the trouble to sound it."

Henry David Thoreau, "Walden" (1854), from the chapter "The Pond in Winter":

"Standing on the snow-covered plain, as if in a pasture amid the hills, I cut my way first through a foot of snow, and then a foot of ice, and open a window under my feet, where, kneeling to drink, I look down into the quiet parlor of the fishes, pervaded by a softened light as through a window of ground glass, with its bright sanded floor the same as in summer; there a perennial waveless serenity reigns as in the amber twilight sky, corresponding to the cool and even temperament of the inhabitants."

---

Rachel Carson, "Silent Spring" (1962):

"The most alarming of all man's assaults upon the environment is the contamination of air, earth, rivers, and sea with dangerous and even lethal materials. This pollution is for the most part irrecoverable; the chain of evil it initiates not only in the world that must support life but in living tissues is for the most part irreversible. In this now universal contamination of the environment, chemicals are the sinister and little-recognized partners of radiation in changing the very nature of the world -- the very nature of its life."

"Water must be thought of in terms of the chains of life it supports."

"Ever since chemists began to manufacture substances that nature never invented, the problems of water purification have become complex and the danger to users of water has increased."

---

Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, "Gesang der Geister uber den Wassern" (Song of the Spirits over the Waters, 1779):

"Des Menschen Seele
Gleicht dem Wasser:
Vom Himmel kommt es,
Zum Himmel steigt es,
Und wieder nieder
Zur Erde muss es,
Ewig wechselnd."

(The soul of man / Is like the water: / It comes from heaven, / It returns to heaven, / And down again / To earth must go, / Ever changing.)

"Seele des Menschen,
Wie gleichst du dem Wasser!
Schicksal des Menschen,
Wie gleichst du dem Wind!"

(Soul of man, / How like to the water! / Fate of man, / How like to the wind!)

---

Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, "Aphorisms on Nature" (attributed, c. 1780):

"Nature! We are surrounded by her and locked in her clasp: powerless to leave her, and powerless to come closer to her. Unasked and unwarned she takes us up into the whirl of her dance, and hurries on with us till we are weary and fall from her arms."

Goethe, "Faust, Part II" (1832), Act II -- spoken by Thales:

"All is born of water; all is sustained by water."

Goethe, "Poem":

"Water its living strength first shows, when obstacles its course oppose."
