Philosophy has always grappled with concepts that resist translation -- not because of linguistic failure, but because different philosophical traditions carve the world at different joints. These passages from major German-language philosophers illustrate how deeply thought is shaped by the language in which it occurs.

---

Immanuel Kant, "Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklarung?" (An Answer to the Question: What is Enlightenment?, 1784):

"Aufklarung ist der Ausgang des Menschen aus seiner selbst verschuldeten Unmundigkeit. Unmundigkeit ist das Unvermogen, sich seines Verstandes ohne Leitung eines anderen zu bedienen. Selbstverschuldet ist diese Unmundigkeit, wenn die Ursache derselben nicht am Mangel des Verstandes, sondern der Entschliessung und des Muthes liegt, sich seiner ohne Leitung eines andern zu bedienen. Sapere aude! Habe Muth dich deines eigenen Verstandes zu bedienen! ist also der Wahlspruch der Aufklarung."

(Enlightenment is man's emergence from his self-incurred immaturity. Immaturity is the inability to use one's own understanding without the guidance of another. This immaturity is self-incurred if its cause lies not in lack of understanding but in lack of resolution and courage to use it without the guidance of another. Sapere aude! Have the courage to use your own understanding! -- that is the motto of enlightenment.)

---

Martin Heidegger, "Being and Time" (Sein und Zeit, 1927):

"Dasein is a being that does not simply occur among other beings. Rather it is ontically distinguished by the fact that in its being this being is concerned about its very being. Thus it is constitutive of the being of Dasein to have, in its very being, a relation of being to this being."

"Every questioning is a seeking. Every seeking takes its direction beforehand from what is sought. Questioning is a knowing search for beings in their thatness and whatness. It is said that 'being' is the most universal and the emptiest concept. As such it resists every attempt at definition."

"Dasein does not fill up a track or stretch 'of life.' It stretches itself along in such a way that its own being is constituted in advance as a stretching-along. The 'between' which relates to birth and death already lies in the being of Dasein. Factical Dasein exists as born; and, as born, it is already dying, in the sense of being-towards-death. As long as Dasein factically exists, both the 'ends' and their 'between' are, and they are in the only way possible on the basis of Dasein's being as care. As care, Dasein is the 'between.'"

---

Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, on the Weltgeist (World Spirit):

From a letter to Niethammer (July 5, 1816):
"I adhere to the view that the world spirit has given the age marching orders. These orders are being obeyed."

From "Philosophy of Right" (Grundlinien der Philosophie des Rechts, 1821):
"States, nations, and individuals are all the time the unconscious tools of the world mind at work within them."

"The Mind of the world exercises its right in the 'history of the world which is the world's court of judgement.'"

From "Lectures on the Philosophy of History" (Vorlesungen uber die Philosophie der Geschichte, 1831):
"Reason governs the world and has consequently governed its history."

"The East knew and to the present day knows only that One is Free; the Greek and Roman world, that some are free; the German World knows that All are free."

"History is not the soil in which happiness grows. The periods of happiness in it are the blank pages of history."

---

Soren Kierkegaard, "The Concept of Anxiety" (Begrebet Angest, 1844):

"Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom."

"Anxiety is a qualification of dreaming spirit, and as such it has its place in psychology. Awake, the difference between myself and my other is posited; sleeping, it is suspended; dreaming, it is an intimated nothing. The actuality of the spirit constantly shows itself as a form that tempts its possibility but disappears as soon as it seeks to grasp for it, and it is a nothing that can only bring anxiety."

"I would say that learning to know anxiety is an adventure which every man has to affront if he would not go to perdition either by not having known anxiety or by sinking under it."

"If man were a beast or an angel, he would not be able to be in anxiety. Since he is both beast and angel, he can be in anxiety, and the greater the anxiety, the greater the man."

"Anxiety is a desire for what one fears, a sympathetic antipathy. Anxiety is an alien power which lays hold of an individual, and yet one cannot tear oneself away, nor has a will to do so, for one fears what one desires."

From Kierkegaard's journal (1842):
"The prohibition induces in him anxiety, for the prohibition awakens in him freedom's possibility."
